[All Hosts] (devx) new article guidance for uninstalling add-ins (#4970)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/testing/uninstall-add-in.md

This article provides some guidance to minimize the chance of these problems and for resolving them if they occur.

## Prevent the problems

When an add-in is sideloaded, several things happen:

- A web server, usually on localhost, is started to serve the add-ins files (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, etc.).
- These same files are cached on your development computer.
- The add-in is registered with the development computer. The registration is done with Registry entries on a Windows computer or with certain files saved to the file system on a Mac.
- Most tools for sideloading add-ins also automatically open the Office application that the add-in targets and populate the application with any custom ribbon buttons or context menu items that are defined in the add-in's manifest.
- For an Outlook add-in, the add-in's manifest and certain other values about the add-in are registered with the Exchange service.

>    > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: This whole section contains valuable information, but, for me, doesn't mesh with the header of "Prevent the problems". Is there a more logical place for this Outlook note?

Author: > This whole section contains valuable information, but, for me, doesn't mesh with the header of "Prevent the problems". Is there a more logical place for this Outlook note?

Moved it up to the introduction section.

   >
   > If the URLs in the manifest point to a non-localhost server and that server is running and accessible to the non-development computer, then Outlook caches the add-in's files in the local file system and the add-in usually runs normally on the computer. Otherwise, the add-in doesn't function, but visible parts of it, such as custom ribbon buttons appear. They have the labels defined in the manifest. The add-in's button icons also appear if they were ever cached locally on the non-development computer and the cache was never cleared. But the icon files aren't stored with Exchange, so if they were never cached on the non-development computer (or the cache has been cleared), then the buttons have default icons.
   >
   > Until the add-in's registration is removed from Exchange, the add-in will continue to appear. See [Remove a ghost add-in](#remove-a-ghost-add-in) for information about removing the registration in Exchange.

### Use your tool's uninstall facility

> To prevent ghost add-ins, end every testing/debugging/sideloading session by using the uninstall (also called unacquire) facility that is provided by the tool that you used to start the session. Doing this reverses the effects in the bullet list earlier in this article.

Reviewer: Suggestion for localization. Also, since there are multiple bullet lists before this paragraph, consider being more specific. 
```suggestion
To prevent ghost add-ins, end every testing, debugging, and sideloading session by using the uninstall (also called unacquire) option that is provided by the tool that you used to start the session. Doing this reverses the effects of sideloading, as stated earlier in this article.
```

The following list identifies, for each tool, how to uninstall but doesn't describe the procedures or syntax in detail. *Be sure to use the links to get complete instructions.*

> [!NOTE]

> > Some of these tools don't close the Office application that opened automatically. In that case, close the application manually and then use the tool to end the sideloading session. 

Reviewer: Does the order here matter (can the user close the application after ending the session with the tool)? If so, maybe suggest closing the application afterwards, since the user might not know whether the tool does the close operation.

Author: > Does the order here matter (can the user close the application after ending the session with the tool)? If so, maybe suggest closing the application afterwards, since the user might not know whether the tool does the close operation.

Good point, they should use the tool first.

> - **Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins (Yo Office)**: Use the `npm stop` script at the same command line where you started the session with `npm start`. For more information, see the various articles in the **Get started / Quick starts** section and [Remove a sideloaded add-in](sideload-office-add-ins-for-testing.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins (Yo Office)**: Use the `npm stop` script at the same command line where you started the session with `npm start`. For more information, see the various articles in the **Get started** and **Quick starts** sections and [Remove a sideloaded add-in](sideload-office-add-ins-for-testing.md).
```

## Remove a ghost add-in

To remove a ghost add-in, you need to remove the artifacts that were created when it was last sideloaded, remove it's local registration, and for Outlook add-ins remove it's registration in Exchange.

The process for removing the add-in varies depending on whether the add-in is for Outlook or some other Office application. 

> [!NOTE]
> In the [unified manifest for Microsoft 365](../develop/unified-manifest-overview.md), an add-in can be configured to support Outlook and one or more other Office applications; that is, there is more than one member of the "extensions.requirements.scopes" array in the manifest and one of the members is "mail" (or the "extensions.requirements.scopes" property isn't present). Treat an add-in that is configured in this way as an Outlook add-in.

If the ghost add-in is not an Outlook add-in, skip to the section [Remove the add-in artifacts](#remove-the-add-in-artifacts).

### Remove the Exchange registration of a ghost Outlook add-in

> 1. Be sure you are logged into Outlook with the same ID you used when you sideloaded the add-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log into Outlook with the same ID you used when you sideloaded the add-in.
```

1. Open PowerShell as an Administrator.
1. Run the following commands. Answer "Yes" to all confirmation prompts.

   ```powershell
   Install-Module -Name ExchangeOnlineManagement -RequiredVersion 3.4.0
   Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
   Connect-ExchangeOnline
   ```

      > [!NOTE]
      > If the `Connect-ExchangeOnline` command returns the error "ActiveX control '8856f961-340a-11d0-a96b-00c04fd705a2' cannot be instantiated because the current thread is not in a single-threaded apartment", just run the command a second time. This is a well-known bug.

1. Run the following command. Answer "Yes" to all confirmation prompts.

   ```powershell
   Get-App | Format-Table -Auto DisplayName,AppId
   ```

>    A list of the add-ins installed on Outlook displays. Most of them are built-in Microsoft add-ins, but if you have installed add-ins from other companies, they are listed too as are any ghost Outlook add-ins. 

Reviewer: Missing comma, but consider rewriting that second sentence to avoid so many commas (maybe split it into two?)
```suggestion
   A list of the add-ins installed on Outlook displays. Most of them are built-in Microsoft add-ins, but if you have installed add-ins from other companies, they are listed too, as are any ghost Outlook add-ins. 
```

> 1.  Find your ghost add-in in the list. If you created it with Yo Office or another Microsoft tool, it probably has the name "Contoso Task Pane Add-in". 

Reviewer: Consider avoiding saying "your ghost add-in" to help the reader avoid some responsibility.
```suggestion
1. Find the ghost add-in in the list. If it was created with Yo Office or another Microsoft tool, it probably has the name "Contoso Task Pane Add-in". 
```

1. Copy the App ID (a GUID) of the add-in. You need it for later steps.

> 1. Run the command `Remove-App -Identity {{The GUID OF YOUR ADD-IN HERE}}`; for example, `Remove-App -Identity 26ead0cb-10dd-4ba2-86c6-4db111876652`. This command removes the add-in from Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the command `Remove-App -Identity {{The GUID OF YOUR ADD-IN HERE}}` (e.g., `Remove-App -Identity 26ead0cb-10dd-4ba2-86c6-4db111876652`). This command removes the add-in from Exchange.
```

   > [!WARNING]

>    > The removal of the registration needs to propagate to all Exchange servers. Wait at least three hours before continuing with the next step. 

Reviewer: Or before swimming in a pool ;-)

1. Continue with the section [Remove the add-in artifacts](#remove-the-add-in-artifacts).

### Remove the add-in artifacts

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Carry out this procedure on all devices on which you ever had the add-in sideloaded.

Reviewer: Something about the tense of this sentence seemed off to me, but I'm not sure this suggestion is better.
```suggestion
> Carry out this procedure on all devices on which you have had the add-in sideloaded.
```

1. Log out from all Office applications and then close them all, including Outlook. 
1. [Clear the Office cache](clear-cache.md). If the ghost add-in supports Outlook, use [Clear the cache in Outlook manually](clear-cache.md#manually-clear-the-cache-in-outlook).

> 1. Continue with the section [Remove the local registration](#remove-the-local-registration).

Reviewer: Is this line necessary considering it's the next section?

### Remove the local registration

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Carry out this procedure on all computers on which you ever had the add-in sideloaded.

1. Delete the local registration of the ghost add-in. The process varies depending on the operating system.

>    **Windows:**

Reviewer: Should we do the tabbed control here instead?

   1. Open the **Registry Editor**.

>    1. Navigate to **Computer\HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\WEF\Developer**. This key lists the add-ins that are currently sideloaded, or were sideloaded in the past and weren't fully uninstalled. The **Data** value for each entry is the path to the add-in's manifest. The **Name** value varies depending on which version of which tool was used to create and sideload the add-in. If Visual Studio was used, the name is typically is also the path to the manifest. For other tools, the name is typically the add-in's ID. When an Office application launches, it reloads all add-ins listed in this key (that support the Office application), although the reloading may have no practical or discernable effect if the add-in's artifacts have been deleted from the cache, or the manifest no longer exists at the path, or the add-in's files aren't being served by a server.

Reviewer: Consider breaking up that last sentence.
```suggestion
   1. Navigate to **Computer\HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\WEF\Developer**. This key lists the add-ins that are currently sideloaded, or were sideloaded in the past and weren't fully uninstalled. The **Data** value for each entry is the path to the add-in's manifest. The **Name** value varies depending on which version of which tool was used to create and sideload the add-in. If Visual Studio was used, the name is typically is also the path to the manifest. For other tools, the name is typically the add-in's ID. When an Office application launches, it reloads all add-ins listed in this key (that support the Office application). Reloading may have no practical or discernable effect if the add-in's artifacts have been deleted from the cache, or the manifest no longer exists at the path, or the add-in's files aren't being served by a server.
```

   1. Navigate to **Computer\HKEY_USERS\\{SID}\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\WEF\Developer**, where **{SID}** is the [SID](/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/manage/understand-security-identifiers) of the user you were signed in with when you sideloaded the add-in, and repeat the preceding two steps.

   1. Navigate to **Computer\HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Common\CustomUIValidationCache**. In the **Name** column, find all the entries that begin with the add-in's ID (a GUID) and delete them. Then navigate to **Computer\HKEY_USERS\\{SID}\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Common\CustomUIValidationCache**, where **{SID}** is the SID of the user you were signed in with when you sideloaded the add-in, and repeat the process.

      :::image type="content" source="../images/addinRegistrationWindows.png" alt-text="The Windows registry for the key named Computer\HKEY_USERS\SID\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Common\CustomUIValidationCache**, where SID is the SID of a user." border="false":::

   **Mac:** 

>    For non-Outlook add-ins the local registration on a Mac is removed when you clear the cache. See [Remove the add-in artifacts](#remove-the-add-in-artifacts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For non-Outlook add-ins, the local registration on a Mac is removed when you clear the cache. See [Remove the add-in artifacts](#remove-the-add-in-artifacts).
```

   For ghost Outlook add-ins, remove the local registration on a Mac by using the **Add-Ins for Outlook** dialog in Outlook. Follow the guidance at [Remove a sideloaded Outlook add-in](../outlook/sideload-outlook-add-ins-for-testing.md#remove-a-sideloaded-add-in).

1. If you are removing an Outlook add-in, continue with the section [Test for removal of Outlook add-ins](#test-for-removal-of-outlook-add-ins).

### Test for removal of Outlook add-ins

> Open Outlook with the same identity you used when you created the add-in. If artifacts from the add-in, such as custom ribbon buttons, reappear after a few minutes or if event handlers from the add-in seem to be active; then the removal of the add-in's registration from Exchange hasn't propagated to all Exchange servers. Wait at least three hours and then repeat the procedures in the sections [Remove the add-in artifacts](#remove-the-add-in-artifacts) and [Remove the local registration](#remove-the-local-registration) on the computer where you observed the artifacts.

Reviewer: I don't think the semicolon usage is correct, so here's a suggestion to reduce the commas in that sentence.
```suggestion
Open Outlook with the same identity you used when you created the add-in. If artifacts from the add-in (such as custom ribbon buttons) reappear after a few minutes or if event handlers from the add-in seem to be active, then the removal of the add-in's registration from Exchange hasn't propagated to all Exchange servers. Wait at least three hours and then repeat the procedures in the sections [Remove the add-in artifacts](#remove-the-add-in-artifacts) and [Remove the local registration](#remove-the-local-registration) on the computer where you observed the artifacts.
```
